(DOCSP-14316): Review Guidelines for docs-realm (#826)
mongodb/docs-realm: REVIEWING.md

# Reviewing Guidelines for the MongoDB Realm Documentation

Realm Docs contributions typically go through two sets of reviewers:
a **copy edit**, which focuses on structure and wording, and a

> **technical review**, which addresses code snippets and the technical

Reviewer: This list could be broken into point form for enhanced scanning.

correctness of prose.

## Technical Review

A **technical review** consists of reviewing the technical accuracy and

> completeness of a docs PR (Pull Request) and correcting it if necessary.

Reviewer: Could this be clearer like this?

>Review the technical accuracy and completeness of a docs PR (Pull Request) and correct it if necessary.

Kind of making this more of "How to..." rather than a definition.

If a writer of an article wants someone else to check the technical
content of an article, the writer contacts a specific engineer to

> perform the technical review.

Reviewer: Is this second sentence needed? I'm not sure I'm getting the intention.

### What to Review

- Code snippets
- Technical claims, e.g. ("To create a `Foo`, use the `Bar.createFoo()` method")
- Missing "footguns", i.e. potential pitfalls that could trip up users
  who try to follow the documentation.

> ### What not to Review

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What Not to Review
```

- Wording of sentences: while suggestions are appreciated, PRs
  that have reached the technical review stage have already passed copy
  editing. Copy edits are out of scope of technical reviews, unless they
  directly relate to a technical claim.
- Structure of the page: as with wording, structural changes are out of
  scope and should never block approval of a technical review.
- Any lines of the page that have not been touched in the PR,
  unless they refer to content that has changed as a result of the PR or
  fall within the scope of the PR's related JIRA ticket. If you do notice
  an issue with content that's outside of the JIRA ticket's scope, the

>   docs team would very much appreciate if you could bring it up in the

Reviewer: Rather than the overly polite but cloudy

>the docs team would very much appreciate if you could bring it up in the

...maybe

>please mention it in #docs-realm or file a Jira ticket.

>   #docs-realm Slack channel or file a JIRA ticket capturing the issue.

Reviewer: It wouldn't hurt to have that similarly-structured "Copy edit" guidance here too. I hope I'm not contradicting myself.

(Pull Request) and correct it if necessary.

### What to Review

- Code snippets
- Technical claims, e.g. ("To create a `Foo`, use the `Bar.createFoo()` method")
- Missing "footguns", i.e. potential pitfalls that could trip up users
  who try to follow the documentation.

### What Not to Review

- Wording of sentences: while suggestions are appreciated, PRs
  that have reached the technical review stage have already passed copy
  editing. Copy edits are out of scope of technical reviews, unless they
  directly relate to a technical claim.
- Structure of the page: as with wording, structural changes are out of
  scope and should never block approval of a technical review.
- Any lines of the page that have not been touched in the PR,
  unless they refer to content that has changed as a result of the PR or
  fall within the scope of the PR's related JIRA ticket. If you do notice
  an issue with content that's outside of the JIRA ticket's scope,
  please mention it in the #docs-realm Slack channel or file a JIRA
  ticket with the `DOCSP` project.

## Copy Edits

Review the structure, wording and flow of a docs PR and correct it if
necessary.

### What to Review

- Wording

> - Page Structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Page structure
```

- Snooty Autobuilder build errors and warnings

> - Altered or added Example App tests (if any have changed, CI should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Altered or added example app tests (if any have changed, CI should
```

  automatically run)
- Technical content from a "looks correct" perspective, since technical
  review should address deeper concerns
- Whether or not the PR fulfills the Acceptance Criteria described in the
  linked JIRA ticket.

> ### What not to Review

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What Not to Review
```

Very little is completely off-limits to a copy edit of a PR -- if you

> notice a technical issue, it's best to call it out early than to waste

Reviewer: ```suggestion
notice a technical issue, it's best to call it out early.
```

> an engineer's time fixing something that anybody could notice. However,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However,
```

# Reviewing Guidelines for the MongoDB Realm Documentation

> The MongoDB Realm Docs Team (also known as Developer Education) produces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MongoDB Realm Docs Team (a part of the Developer Education Team) produces
```

   the PR can squash and merge the PR into the `master` branch of
   `docs-realm` whenever content is ready for release (if a PR describes
   an as-of-yet unreleased feature, the PR remains open until the
   feature is released).

7. Once the content is merged, the Realm Docs team deploys the changes to
   [docs.mongodb.com/realm](https://docs.mongodb.com/realm/).

## Copy Edits

A **copy edit** of a docs PR consists of reviewing the structure, wording
and flow of a docs PR and correcting it if necessary.

### What to Review

- Wording
- Page Structure
- Snooty Autobuilder build errors and warnings
- Altered or added Example App tests (if any have changed, CI should
  automatically run)
- Technical content from a "looks correct" perspective, since technical
  review should address deeper concerns
- Whether or not the PR fulfills the Acceptance Criteria described in the
  linked JIRA ticket.

### What not to Review

Very little is completely off-limits to a copy edit of a PR -- if you
notice a technical issue, it's best to call it out early than to waste
an engineer's time fixing something that anybody could notice. However,

> copy editors should restrain their reviews to only content within the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
copy editors should constrain their reviews to only content within the
```

scope of the JIRA ticket.

## Technical Review

A **technical review** consists of reviewing the technical accuracy and
completeness of a docs PR (Pull Request) and correcting it if necessary.
If a writer of an article wants someone else to check the technical
content of an article, the writer contacts a specific engineer to
perform the technical review.

### What to Review

- Code snippets
- Technical claims, e.g. ("To create a `Foo`, use the `Bar.createFoo()` method")
- Missing "footguns", i.e. potential pitfalls that could trip up users

>   who try to follow the documetntation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  who try to follow the documentation.
```
